Hello and welcome back.
And in today's tutorial we will be looking at duplicates and joins and by that we mean what happens
when the column that we're joining on has duplicate values in one of the tables.
In today's example we'll be looking at two tables table A and Table B Table A lists orders that are
conducted for us shop.
It specifies their region and their status so whether they were unpaid or whether they were paid.
Table B list the same orders but an itemized description of those orders so it lists the order number
the item that was sold within that order and the sales that were generated through the sale of that
item.
And as you can see orders in Table B can be duplicated because some orders consist of several items
for example Order Number One consists of a chair and a desk.
And so we're going to be looking at an example of an inner join between these two tables so basically
we want to take the order number from table A and use that to join table a to table be also an order
number.
So basically we want to connect the status of the order where there was paid or unpaid to the item and
the sales of the order.
And currently this information is contained within two separate tables.
We want to bring it together from this image you can see that when we join the two tables on the order
number there will be two matches in the second table to order number one.
There will be one match in the second table to order number two.
There will be three matches to order number three in the second table and there is no matches 4 or number
four.
So because this is an inner join this row will be discarded from the final result.
And what will happen now is as you can see there's less rows in the table left than on the table in
the right.
So every time there is a multiple match the two rows that have been matched multiple times will be replicated
.
So duplicate or triplicated and so on.
So in this particular case the final table will look like this.
And as you can see here some rows of the table on the left have been duplicated to match the number
of rows and the table in the right hand is completely normal.
So this is the way the final table will look in our output.
So that's what happens when there are duplicate values in the column that we're joining on.
I hope you enjoyed today's Tauriel and I look forward to seeing you next time.